RHOAIENG-18528: Procedural module [enabling NIM metrics for existing deployments] (#632)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/enabling-metrics-for-existing-nim-deployment.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

[id="enabling-performance-metrics-for-an-existing-nim-deployment_{context}"]
= Enabling performance metrics for an existing NIM deployment 

[role="_abstract"]

ifdef::self-managed[]
If you have previously deployed a NIM model in {productname-short}, and then upgraded to {vernum}, you must manually enable performance metrics for your existing deployment.
endif::[]

ifdef::cloud-service,upstream[]
If you have previously deployed a NIM model in {productname-short}, and then upgraded to the latest version, you must manually enable performance metrics for your existing deployment.
endif::[]

This includes manually adding annotations to enable metrics collection and graph generation for your deployment.

ifdef::self-managed[]
[NOTE]
====
NIM metrics and graphs are automatically enabled for new deployments in 2.17.
====
endif::[]
ifdef::cloud-service,upstream[]
[NOTE]
====
NIM metrics and graphs are automatically enabled for new deployments in the latest version of {productname-short}.
====
endif::[]

> == Enabling graph generation for an existing NIM deployment

Reviewer: Should this maybe be broken out into its own module?

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {openshift-platform} cluster.
ifdef::upstream,self-managed[]
* You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI). For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/cli_tools/openshift-cli-oc#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^].
endif::[]
ifdef::cloud-service[]
* You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI). For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/dedicated/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^] (Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated) or link:https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^] (Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS).
endif::[]
* You have an existing NIM deployment in {productname-short}.

.Procedure
. In a terminal window, if you are not already logged in to your {openshift-platform} cluster as a cluster administrator, log in to the OpenShift CLI.

> . Confirm the name of the `ServingRuntime` associated with your NIM deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm the name of the `ServingRuntime` associated with your NIM deployment:
```

+
[source]
----
oc get servingruntime -n <namespace>
----  
+
Replace `<namespace>` with the namespace of the project where your NIM model is deployed. 

> . Check for an existing `metadata.annotations` section in the `ServingRuntime` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check for an existing `metadata.annotations` section in the `ServingRuntime` configuration:
```

+
[source]
----
oc get servingruntime -n  <namespace> <servingruntime-name> -o json | jq '.metadata.annotations'
---- 
+

> Replace <servingruntime-name> with the name of the `ServingRuntime` that you found in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <servingruntime-name> with the name of the `ServingRuntime` from the previous step.
```

> . Performing one of the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Perform one of the following actions:
```

.. If the `metadata.annotations` section is not present in the configuration, add the section with the required annotations:
+
[source]
----
oc patch servingruntime -n <namespace> <servingruntime-name> --type json --patch \
 '[{"op": "add", "path": "/metadata/annotations", "value": {"runtimes.opendatahub.io/nvidia-nim": "true"}}]'
----
+
You see output similar to the following:
+
[source]
----
servingruntime.serving.kserve.io/nim-serving-runtime patched
----
.. If there is an existing `metadata.annotations` section, add the required annotations to the section:
+
[source]
----
oc patch servingruntime -n <project-namespace> <runtime-name> --type json --patch \
 '[{"op": "add", "path": "/metadata/annotations/runtimes.opendatahub.io~1nvidia-nim", "value": "true"}]'
----
+
You see output similar to the following:
+
[source]
----
servingruntime.serving.kserve.io/nim-serving-runtime patched
----

 
.Verification

> * Confirm that the annotation has been successfully added to the `ServingRuntime` of your existing NIM deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm that the annotation has been added to the `ServingRuntime` of your existing NIM deployment.
```

+
[source]
----
oc get servingruntime -n <namespace> <servingruntime-name> -o json | jq '.metadata.annotations'
----
+

> You see the annotation that you added in the output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotation that you added appears in the output:
```

+
[source]
----
...
"runtimes.opendatahub.io/nvidia-nim": "true"
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> For scraped metrics to be available for graph generation, you must also enable metrics collection for your deployment. Please see link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#enabling_metrics_collection_for_an_existing_nim_deployment[Enabling metrics collection for an existing NIM deployment],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metrics to be available for graph generation, you must also enable metrics collection for your deployment. Please see link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#enabling_metrics_collection_for_an_existing_nim_deployment[Enabling metrics collection for an existing NIM deployment],
```
Minor nitpick, keep it if it's more technically accurate

====

> == Enabling metrics collection for an existing NIM deployment

Reviewer: Should this maybe be broken out into its own module?

.Prerequisites

* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {openshift-platform} cluster.
ifdef::upstream,self-managed[]
* You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI). For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/{ocp-latest-version}/html/cli_tools/openshift-cli-oc#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^].
endif::[]
ifdef::cloud-service[]
* You have downloaded and installed the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI). For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/dedicated/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^] (Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated) or link:https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI^] (Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS).
endif::[]
* You have an existing NIM deployment in {productname-short}.

.Procedure
. In a terminal window, if you are not already logged in to your {openshift-platform} cluster as a cluster administrator, log in to the OpenShift CLI.

> . Confirm the name of the `InferenceService` associated with your NIM deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm the name of the `InferenceService` associated with your NIM deployment:
```

+
[source]
----
oc get inferenceservice -n <namespace>
----
+
Replace `<namespace>` with the namespace of the project where your NIM model is deployed.

> . Check if there is an existing `spec.predictor.annotations` section in the `InferenceService` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if there is an existing `spec.predictor.annotations` section in the `InferenceService` configuration:
```

+
[source]
----
oc get inferenceservice -n <namespace> <inferenceservice-name> -o json | jq '.spec.annotations'
----
+

> Replace <inferenceservice-name> with the name of the `InferenceService` that you found in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <inferenceservice-name> with the name of the `InferenceService` from the previous step.
```

. Perform one of the following actions:
.. If the `spec.predictor.annotations` section does not exist in the configuration, add the section and required annotations:
+
[source]
----
oc patch inferenceservice -n <namespace> <inference-name> --type json --patch \
 '[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/predictor/annotations", "value": {"prometheus.io/path": "/metrics", "prometheus.io/port": "8000"}}]'
----
+
You see output similar to the following:
+
[source]
----
inferenceservice.serving.kserve.io/nim-serving-runtime patched
----
.. If there is an existing `spec.predictor.annotations` section, add the Prometheus annotations to the section:
+
[source]
----
oc patch inferenceservice -n <namespace> <inference-service-name> --type json --patch \
 '[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/predictor/annotations/prometheus.io~1path", "value": "/metrics"},
 {"op": "add", "path": "/spec/predictor/annotations/prometheus.io~1port", "value": "8000"}]'
---- 
+
You see output similar to the following:
+
[source]
----
inferenceservice.serving.kserve.io/nim-serving-runtime patched
----

.Verification

> * Confirm that the annotations have been successfully added to the `InferenceService`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm that the annotations have been added to the `InferenceService`.
```

+
[source]
----
oc get inferenceservice -n <namespace> <inferenceservice-name> -o json | jq '.spec.predictor.annotations'
----
+

> You see the annotation that you added in the output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotation that you added appears in the output:
```
